A Visit To An Orthodontist


Orthodontists are registered dental specialists whose primary focus is straightening teeth and aligning jaws. Their training enables them to diagnose, prevent, intercept and treat both functional and aesthetic irregularities of the teeth, mouth and jaws.
A well-aligned smile is not just attractive; it’s also healthy. Crooked teeth, crowded teeth, spaces between teeth and misaligned jaws can cause gum disease, tooth decay, jaw strain and/or pain, and may negatively impact self-esteem and social interaction. In addition to correcting the appearance of a smile, orthodontic treatment can reduce the risk of future dental problems and even help alleviate jaw or neck pain caused by TMJ/TMD.
In most cases, a dentist will refer patients to an orthodontist for orthodontic treatment. This is because some of the issues orthodontists specialise in are not easily addressed by a general dentist, such as severe asymmetrical facial appearances, jaw malocclusions, overcrowding of teeth, recurrent headaches or excessive jaw clicking or locking, and long-term thumb sucking habits.
After graduating from college and dental school, orthodontists undergo a further two to three years of full-time orthodontic residency to gain the skills, knowledge and experience to become a specialist in moving teeth and aligning jaws. They are also trained in the guidance of dental, jaw and facial development to ensure their treatments promote safe, predictable results.
Orthodontic treatment often involves the use of dental braces and other appliances to encourage or guide teeth and jaws into a better alignment. These devices can include fixed or removable braces, which are typically made of metal, ceramics or clear ("invisible") materials. In some cases, orthodontists will design headgear or facemasks to fit around the patient’s head, which attaches to the dental braces to further encourage or guide the teeth and jaws into a more desirable position.
Once a person’s orthodontic treatment is completed, they will normally wear a retainer to prevent their teeth from returning to their original positions (known as relapse). Retainers are usually made of clear or transparent plastic and can be either fixed or removable.
It is recommended that people visit an orthodontist for treatment during childhood if possible, as children’s facial bones are still soft and more flexible and therefore easier to move. In some cases, orthodontists may recommend the use of a palate expander to create more space in the upper jaw for growing teeth.
In general, success depends on the commitment of both the orthodontist and the patient. In particular, making sure to keep appointments and following the orthodontist’s instructions will help ensure that braces, wires and other appliances are looked after correctly, avoiding damage. In addition, a good diet and regular cleaning of the teeth and appliance will also aid the successful outcome of treatment.
A smile is one of our most treasured possessions, and it’s important to take the time to ensure yours is in its best possible condition. If you have crooked or gapped teeth, overcrowded teeth or misaligned jaws, an orthodontist will be able to improve the look and feel of your smile and give you confidence in social situations.


What Does an Orthodontist Do?

A straight smile is often considered to be a sign of good health. Unfortunately, not everyone is born with straight teeth, and misaligned jaws or crowded mouths can lead to dental problems. If left untreated, these problems may worsen over time. In order to correct these issues, people must visit a specialist known as an orthodontist.
Orthodontists are dentists who have received additional training in the diagnosis and correction of teeth and jaw irregularities. They are licensed to treat patients of all ages.
Unlike general dentists, who focus on tooth decay, repairs and extractions, or oral diseases like gum disease and inflammation, orthodontists are experts in diagnosing and treating malocclusions (bad bites). They can also identify potential problems that general dentists might not notice.
An orthodontist’s main goal is to align the teeth and jaws in order to improve a person’s appearance and their health. This is done using a variety of appliances and techniques, including braces and clear aligners. Orthodontic treatment can take anywhere from a few months to two-and-a-half years. Once the teeth are properly aligned, the orthodontist will provide a retainer to keep them in place.
The first thing that an orthodontist does is examine the patient. They will use in-person exams, 2D or 3D x-rays and photos to create a custom treatment plan for each patient. The plan will include a timeline for when each appliance will be used and what results they are expected to achieve.
Once the treatment plan is set, the orthodontist will begin to correct the malocclusions. Some of the most common problems include an overbite, which is when the upper teeth are further forward than the lower ones; an underbite, which is when the lower teeth stick out farther than the upper teeth; and overcrowding, which is when there isn’t enough space for the normal growth and development of the teeth and jaws.
In addition to fixed appliances like braces and clear aligners, orthodontists also work with removable devices, such as palate expanders, that help to create more space for the upper teeth. They can also reshape and restructure the lips, face and jaw to make them more attractive.
Although most orthodontic patients are children and adolescents, orthodontists can treat adults as well. It is more difficult for adults to receive treatment than it is for children, but treatment can still be completed successfully. During treatment, it is important for adults to keep up with proper oral hygiene, as plaque can build up more easily around brackets and wires. If a person is not diligent about cleaning their teeth during treatment, the results of an orthodontist’s work can be compromised. For this reason, orthodontists generally recommend that their adult patients receive treatment as soon as possible in order to minimize the amount of time they spend wearing a retainer.

What Is An Orthodontist?

Orthodontists are dentists who specialize in preventing, diagnosing and treating facial and dental irregularities such as bad bites. They use a variety of apparatus, including dental braces (which are usually made of metal), ceramics, clear ("invisible") materials and headgear and face masks to encourage the growth and alignment of teeth and jawbones in the best possible way. They work with patients of all ages and help them to achieve healthier, more attractive smiles.
Orthodontic treatment is important because a healthy bite makes eating, drinking and talking easier and more comfortable. It also helps to reduce the risk of gum disease and tooth decay. Most importantly, a beautiful smile can increase self-esteem, improve social relationships and boost confidence.
Most people know that a dentist is the person to visit when they have a toothache, need a filling or have a broken crown. However, not everyone knows that there are different specialties within dentistry and that a fully qualified orthodontist is the person to visit when you have problems with the alignment of your teeth and jaw.
In order to qualify as an orthodontist, dentists must spend three additional years in university study programs and attend orthodontic residency programs. After completing their studies, orthodontists have all the skills and knowledge to diagnose and treat any issues with the positioning of a patient’s teeth, jaw or face.
Although many general dentists offer orthodontic services, they cannot claim to be a specialist in this area unless they have spent the extra time and money to become an orthodontist. Orthodontists have the training, education and experience to provide a higher standard of service for their patients.
In most cases, dentists will refer their patients who need orthodontic care to a specialist. This is because most general dentists do not have the additional university training and experience that orthodontists possess in this particular field of expertise.
Once a person has completed their orthodontic treatment, they will typically need to wear retainers in order to prevent their teeth from returning to their original position, or relapsing. This is because, over 50% of adults will experience relapse in their teeth alignment after having had orthodontic treatments as children.
While there are a number of reasons why a person may require orthodontic treatment, the most common reason is to correct an overbite or underbite. A crooked jawline or large spaces between the teeth can lead to a host of dental and health problems, such as gum disease, difficult or painful chewing and difficulty speaking.
In order to resolve these problems, an orthodontist will create a specific plan for the treatment of each individual case. This plan will include a series of appointments during which the orthodontist will use their specialized equipment to move and adjust the patient’s teeth. In order to ensure that the results of the treatment are optimum, an orthodontist will assess each patient’s progress during each appointment and make adjustments as necessary. This will result in a shorter overall treatment time and an improved, more desirable outcome for the patient.

Member Spotlight

Hanover Shoe
1637 Lincoln Street
Penns Neck, NJ 08540
609-419-5683

roccopiscatello.com


Orthodontists specialize in correcting misaligned teeth, using cutting-edge techniques that ensure optimal results. Through the use of braces or Invisalign aligners, they can straighten your teeth and improve your bite alignment, giving you not only enhanced aesthetics but also improved oral health.


About Us

At Orthodontist Commerce Group, we believe that everyone deserves a beautiful smile. That's why we offer flexible financing options to make our services accessible to all patients. Our friendly staff is committed to providing exceptional care in a comfortable environment, making each visit enjoyable and stress-free. Don't let crooked teeth hold you back any longer – contact Orthodontist Commerce Group today and take the first step towards achieving the perfect smile you deserve!
